Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Answer: To store organizing information’s

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Answer: cTraversing - Searching - Inserting - Deleting - Sorting - Merging - Traversing.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Answer: 1.Compiler Design
        2.Operating System
        3.Database Management System
        4.Statistical analysis package
        5.Numerical Analysis
        6.Graphics
        7.Artificial Intelligence
        8.Simulation

what is an Array?
Answer: An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Answer: The length is defined in array while it is not in arrayList.

what is LinkedList?
Answer: A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Answer: In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location. In Linked list, location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node.

what is queue?
Answer: A queue is designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.

what is stack?
Answer: It is a collection that is based on the last in first out (LIFO) principle.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer: FIFO: First in first out, LIFO: last in first out

what is the order of complexity?
Answer:

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer: The first element.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: Comparison.

what is tree in data structure?
Answer: A Tree is a non-linear data structure where data objects are organized in terms of hierarchical relationship.

what is graph in data structure?
Answer:A graph is an object consisting of a vertex set and an edge set.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer: Hashtable is synchronized whereas hashmap is not.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas :
Answer: RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

How HashMap works in java?
Answer: HashMap implementation calls hashCode method on Key object and applies returned hashcode into its own hashing function to find a bucket location for storing Entry object, important point to mention is that HashMap in Java stores both key and value.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Answer: an attempt to use an index that is less than zero or greater than or equal to the length of the array causes an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer: 1. Manually
        2. Arrays.copyOf() We can directly copy one array to another by using Arrays.copyOf() method. It has following syntax.
        3. System.arraycopy().  It is another method that directly copies one array to another. It has following syntax.
        4. Object.clone(). We can also use clone() method of Object class to make a copy of an array.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Answer: In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location. In Linked list, location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node.

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer: The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and searching a node in a graph. They can also be used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.

What is Recursion?
Answer: Recursion is method calls itself to solve some problem.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Answer: When data items are not organized sequentially is called linear data structure, where data items are not organized sequentially is called non linear data structure.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Answer: Big O notation is used to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Answer: 1.Selection sort
        2.Merge sort
        3.Heapsort
        4.Quicksort
        5.Bubble sort
        6.Shellsort
        7.Comb sort

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


